JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
President Trump
keeps up his attack on the news
media, as
the White House bans CNN, The
New York Times,
The Los Angeles Times and others
from a press
briefing.
Then: face to face with voting
constituents.
Republicans in Congress hear
complaints at
packed town hall meetings.
MARCI BANDELLI, Co-Founder,
Westfield 2020:
We never knew that this was in
our community.
We never knew the passion and
that these caring
people were here.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's Friday.
Mark Shields and David Brooks
analyze the
week's news.
Plus: the story of a man who
offers a home
to terminally ill foster
children.
MOHAMED BZEEK, Foster Parent: I
know it's
heartbreak.
I know it's a lot of work.
I know it's going to hurt me
sometimes.
You know, I feel sad.
But, in my opinion, we should
help each other,
you know?
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The spotlight was
on President
Trump today, as he took the
stage at the annual
Conservative Political Action
Conference outside
Washington.
He touted his agenda and called
some news
outlets the enemy of the people.
That's before a crowd of
activists who have
at times viewed him with a
skeptical eye.
John Yang reports from the
conference.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
Our victory was a victory and a
win for conservative
values.
JOHN YANG: President Trump moved
today to
put his brand on the
conservative movement,
stressing his populist,
nationalist vision
of America first.
DONALD TRUMP: There is no such
thing as a
global anthem, a global
currency, or a global
flag.
This is the United States of
America that
I'm representing.
I'm not representing the globe.
I'm representing your country.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JOHN YANG: Speaking at the
Conservative Political
Action Conference, or CPAC, in a
packed hotel
ballroom, the president said he
is transforming
the Republican Party.
DONALD TRUMP: The GOP will be,
from now on,
the party also of the American
worker.
If you look at how much bigger
our party has
gotten during this cycle,
millions and millions
of people were joining.
Now, I won't say it was because
of me, but
it was, OK?
(LAUGHTER)
JOHN YANG: Mr. Trump told the
enthusiastic
crowd he would soon sign a new
temporary travel
ban, a signature campaign
pledge, replacing
the executive order the federal
courts put
on hold.
DONALD TRUMP: And in a matter of
days, we
will be taking brand-new action
to protect
our people and keep America
safe.
You will see the action.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
DONALD TRUMP: I will never, ever
apologize
for protecting the safety and
security of
the American people.
I won't do it.
JOHN YANG: While some conference
attendees
said they have reservations
about another
key Trump policy position,
opposition to multinational
trade deals, it doesn't dampen
their enthusiasm
for the president.
ALEX GERSHUNY, CPAC Attendee:
Everything he
said, I agree with, with the
exception of
maybe some of the trade stuff.
So, you know, I can't get 100
percent from
him, can't get 100 percent from
anyone, but,
overall, I was very pleased.
JOHN YANG: Others said Mr.
Trump's election
is redefining the Republican
Party.
THOMAS MELVIN, CPAC Attendee: I
think there's
a lot of people that have the
conservative
values.
I mean, they just haven't come
out of the
closet.
You know, they were kind of
keeping low before,
but there's a lot of people I
have talked
to that said they have come out
since Trump
won.
JOHN YANG: The president also
devoted much
of today's speech to a favorite
topic: lambasting
what he calls the fake media.
DONALD TRUMP: I'm against the
people that
make up stories and make up
sources.
They shouldn't be allowed to use
sources unless
they use somebody's name.
JOHN YANG: His latest target?
A CNN report that FBI officials
refused the
White House's request to knock
down reports
of alleged conversations between
Trump associates
and Russian intelligence
officials during
the 2016 campaign.
Before this morning's speech,
the president
tweeted: "The FBI is totally
unable to stop
the national security leakers
that have permeated
our government.
Classified information is being
given to media
that could have a devastating
effect on U.S."
This afternoon, the Trump
administration's
relationship with the White
House press corps
hit another stumbling block.
Several news outlets, including
The New York
Times, CNN, and The Los Angeles
Times, were
excluded from an informal,
off-camera briefing
with Press Secretary Sean
Spicer.
Conservative news organizations
were allowed
in.
White House officials offered no
immediate
explanation.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang at CPAC
in Oxon Hill, Maryland.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There's been much
reaction
late today to the decision by
the White House
to ban some news media outlets
from the briefing
in the press secretary's office.
It's often called a gaggle.
Two prominent organizations, the
Associated
Press and "TIME" magazine, chose
to boycott
attending in solidarity with
those news organizations.
Sally Buzbee is the executive
editor and senior
vice president of the AP.
And she joins me now.
Sally, thank you for being here.
Why did the AP not attend that
briefing?
You were not shut out.
SALLY BUZBEE, Executive Editor,
Associated
Press: We think that the public
deserves as
much access to the president and
other governing
officials as possible.
When we find ourselves in a
situation where
national news organizations seem
to be being
deliberately excluded, we think
that's dangerous
territory.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is this White
House -- are
these behaviors, rules different
from previous
White House rules?
SALLY BUZBEE: There is always
physical limitations
on access.
There is always compromises that
we make and
sort of concessions that are
made for physical
limitations and other things.
I think, when you get to the
point where there
are news organization that seem
to be being
deliberately excluded, I think
that's different.
We felt today was different.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, that hasn't
happened before,
to your knowledge?
SALLY BUZBEE: I can't speak for
all of history.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
SALLY BUZBEE: I think, in the
access fight
that we have been engaged in for
many decades,
this felt very different to us
today.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What is the
problem?
For those -- for people who
don't know the
news media, what's the problem
for the press
if the White House says, well,
we're going
to talk the some news
organizations, but not
to others?
SALLY BUZBEE: Obviously, the
White House has
the right to do what it wants,
and there are
situations where there might be
individual
types of reporters that it makes
more sense
to talk to, if it's economic
news or something
like this.
But this was a general briefing,
where they
are talking about issues that
cover a wide
range of topics.
And I think the thing that the
public should
think about is, if there start
to be exclusions
and favorites picked and things
like that,
essentially all access in the
end is probably
going to suffer.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sally Buzbee, I
want to ask
you about something else,
something the president
said in his speech today at that
conservative
conference.
He said -- he talked about -- he
was critical
of the news media.
He said some reporters make up
news and they
make up sources.
And he went on to say that
reporters shouldn't
use sources unless they name
those sources.
And I want to ask you about that
in context,
say, for example, with a story
that ran late
today by the AP having to do
with an internal
report done by the Department of
Homeland
Security, saying that there was
insufficient
evidence to show that citizens
from the seven
countries, Muslim majority
countries, named
in the president's travel ban
pose a terror
threat to the U.S.
Now, your organization ran that
story late
today.
There were no named sources.
So, is this a story you stand
by?
And how do you explain this to
people?
SALLY BUZBEE: oh, absolutely, we
stand by
that story.
We think it's an important
story.
Reporters attempt at all times
to get people
to talk to them with their names
attached,
because that obviously is the
gold standard.
If there is information that you
cannot get
any other way, and you know that
it's factual
information, not spin, but
someone is in a
position to know what they're
talking about,
we think that information is
critically important,
and the public needs to know
about it.
It's actually very difficult to
get the government
to tell you what they're doing.
We fight for information and for
facts every
day.
We have for decades.
It's really a struggle to get
information,
factual information about what
the government
is doing.
But we view it really as our
mission to find
out what the government is
doing, the actions,
the thoughts that they're
having, the decisions
they're mulling, and express
that to the public.
And that's why we use anonymous
sources whenever
we have to.
We don't like it, but sometimes
it's the only
way to get facts to the public.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Does the AP have
a plan for
what to do if President Trump
continues to
be as tough on the news media as
he is right
now, talking about fake news,
saying that
reporters are making up stories
and making
up sources?
SALLY BUZBEE: I think we think
that a fight
between the government and any
government
official and the media is
unfortunate, because
we think that people should be
focused on
the actual factual things that
are going on.
I will say that we are going to
do what we
always do, which is, we are
going to fight
like mad to find out what's
going on in terms
of facts, and we are going to
report that
to the public.
And we are going to do that
every single day.
And we are not going to stop.
That's our plan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sally Buzbee,
executive editor
of the Associated Press, thank
you very much.
SALLY BUZBEE: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Appreciate it.
And in the day's other news: At
least 68 people
are dead, after a pair of
Islamic State bombings
in Syria.
They happened near the northern
town of Al-Bab,
which Turkish and Syrian
fighters retook from
ISIS just yesterday.
In one attack, a suicide car
bomb exploded
outside a security checkpoint.
Most of the dead were civilians
who were lined
up for permits to return home.
Iraq's air force struck Islamic
State targets
in Syria for the first time
today.
Warplanes hit two towns, in
response to recent
ISIS-claimed bombings in
Baghdad.
Iraqi forces are also battling
ISIS back in
their own country.
Troops pushed into the first
neighborhood
of Western Mosul, as part of a
now six-day
offensive.
The U.N. says about 750,000
civilians are
trapped in the area.
Malaysian toxicologists have now
determined
that a chemical weapon was used
to assassinate
North Korean leader Kim
Jong-un's half-brother.
He was attacked at a crowded
airport in Kuala
Lumpur.
Margaret Warner has our report.
MARGARET WARNER: It's the latest
stunning
twist in a murder case already
brimming with
mystery.
Malaysian police now say Kim
Jong-nam, estranged
half-brother of North Korean
leader Kim Jong-un,
was killed by the deadly nerve
agent V.X.
Two female assailants, caught on
surveillance
cameras, allegedly rubbed the
poison on Kim's
face in an airport two weeks
ago.
They're both under arrest, along
with several
North Koreans living in
Malaysia.
KHALID ABU BAKAR, Royal Malaysia
Police (through
translator): The chemical is
illegal.
It is a chemical weapon.
We are investigating how it
entered the country.
MARGARET WARNER: The discovery
of the nerve
agent has deepened speculation
that the North
Korean regime was behind the
apparent hit,
a charge Pyongyang has denied.
According to the Centers for
Disease Control,
V.X. is among the most potent
nerve agents
in the world.
It is odorless, and tasteless.
Tiny amounts can kill in
minutes.
Producing it requires
sophisticated equipment.
Experts say that points to North
Korea, which
has reportedly stockpiled the
chemical.
Jean Lee is the former Pyongyang
bureau chief
of the Associated Press.
She spoke to us via Skype from
Seoul.
JEAN LEE, Journalist: The other
thing, obviously,
that it confirms to us, if it
indeed is the
work of the North Koreans, is
that they are
making chemical weapons and that
they are
willing to use them
MARGARET WARNER: Malaysian
authorities said
they began to suspect V.X. was
used after
one of the attackers fell ill.
So, who was their target?
Kim Jong-nam was the eldest son
of former
North Korean leader Kim Jong Il,
and once
considered his heir apparent.
But after he was caught trying
to enter Japan
illegally in 2001, reportedly to
visit Disneyland,
he fell out of favor.
His half-brother Kim Jong-un
ascended to power
when their father died in 2011.
Kim Jong-nam had been living in
exile.
Jean Lee says North Korea's
leader might have
seen his half-brother as a
threat to his legitimacy.
JEAN LEE: Perhaps he was angry
that his half-brother
had been speaking out against
the regime.
This, of course, is illegal
under North Korean
law.
And it could have been a strong
message that
he was sending to North Koreans
overseas,
including his brother, including
defectors.
MARGARET WARNER: The younger Kim
has purged
many relatives within North
Korea in the past.
He had his uncle executed in
2013.
Malaysian officials say they
will decontaminate
the airport to eliminate any
residual trace
of the nerve toxin.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Margaret Warner.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So far, there
have been no
reports of any innocent
bystanders in the
airport falling ill.
Back in this country, the FBI is
investigating
a possible hate crime, following
a shooting
in Kansas this week; 51-year-old
Adam Purinton
has been charged with killing an
Indian-American
engineer Wednesday night.
A second Indian-American man was
wounded.
Purinton is accused of opening
fire at a bar
outside Kansas City.
A bartender said he used --
quote -- "racial
slurs."
Today, the victim's brother
called on Indian
officials to act.
VENU MADHAV, Brother of Victim:
Government
should voice out this strongly,
because our
brothers, sisters and our
relatives are there.
And if you really look into this
incident,
this is not done by a teenager
or a burglar
or something like that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: After the
shooting, Purinton
was found and arrested in
Missouri.
Today, he was extradited back to
Kansas.
And stocks edged higher on Wall
Street today.
The Dow Jones industrial average
gained 11
points to close at 20821.
The Nasdaq rose nearly 10, and
the S&P 500
added three.
For the week, the Dow gained 1
percent.
Both the Nasdaq and the S&P 500
added a fraction
of a percent.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
two views
on what the Democratic Party
should stand
for now; grassroots efforts to
derail the
Trump agenda find inspiration in
Tea Party
tactics; Mark Shields and David
Brooks take
on the week's news; and much
more.
tactics; Mark Shields and David
Brooks take
on the week's news; and much
more.
November's presidential defeat,
along with
years of losses in Congress,
governor's mansions
and statehouses have left the
Democratic Party
with less power at the federal
and state level
than it has had in more than 80
years.
As the Democratic National
Committee prepares
to elect its new leader this
weekend, we want
to assess the state of the party
with Jaime
Harrison.
He's the chair of the South
Carolina Democratic
Party and, until yesterday, a
contender for
the job himself.
And Symone Sanders, she's a
political strategist
for Priorities USA.
It's a Democratic super PAC.
She's also the former national
press secretary
for Senator Bernie Sanders'
presidential campaign.
And we welcome both of you to
the "NewsHour."
I'm going to start with you,
Jaime Harrison.
What should the message of the
Democratic
Party be right now?
JAIME HARRISON, Chairman, South
Carolina Democratic
Party: Well, hopefully tomorrow,
Judy, the
message is a unified one.
We really need to have a chair
right now to
help lead the resistance, to
push back against
Donald Trump and the
rubber-stamp Republican
Congress that we have right now.
We have seen some unprecedented
things over
the course of the past few
weeks.
For the first time in the
history of this
country, a vice president had to
pass a tie-breaking
note for a nominee.
For the first time, we have
someone like Jeff
Sessions in the Justice
Department leading
that effort, an anti-Semite, who
-- in Steve
Bannon in the White House with
the president's
ear.
Time and time again, we have had
these issues
with this administration.
And so the Democratic message
is, enough is
enough.
It is time to really put America
back on the
right track.
And that means eventually
getting rid of Donald
Trump and the Republican
Congress.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That is mostly an
anti-Trump
message.
Symone Sanders, is there a
positive message
right now for Democrats?
SYMONE SANDERS, Former Sanders
Campaign National
Press Secretary: Oh, definitely.
Look, I think there is
tremendous opportunity
for Democrats right now.
You can see in the streets all
across the
country, whether it's the
airports, whether
it's the women's march, whether
it's town
halls during this recess,
people, Democrats,
Republicans, and independents,
are standing
up and saying they want to, one,
hold their
elected officials accountable,
and, two, they
care about the issues.
And so Democrats need to focus
on the overall
message of explaining who we are
as Democrats
what does it mean to be a
progressive and
how Democrats are going to fight
for the American
people.
I believe we have to beat back
Donald Trump,
but we did that during the
general.
Priorities, their role was to
make Donald
Trump unpopular.
And they succeeded.
But we know Hillary Clinton is
now not the
45th president of the United
States.
So, folks want to hear more than
the other
guy is bad.
They want to know what Democrats
are going
to do for them.
That's also the challenge that
the party sees
going forward.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Jaime Harrison,
looking forward
to the results of the election
in November,
what's more important for
Democrats now, to
focus on winning back
working-class white
voters or to shore up the
Democratic base
among African-Americans, among
labor union
members and so forth?
JAIME HARRISON: Judy, it's not
an either/or
thing.
We need to work on and fight for
working people
in this country.
The same issues that
working-class African-Americans,
working-class Latinos,
working-class white
people are dealing with, they
are the same
issues.
They are all struggling to make
sure that
they put food on the table.
They're all struggling to make
sure that there
is a living wage, so that they
can provide
for their family.
They're all struggling in
schools that are
crumbling, or driving on roads
that are falling
apart.
And so, if we can address all
those issues,
as Symone said, if we can come
up with what
our message is, and not only
talk about that
message, but demonstrate that, I
think we
can make great inroads with the
American people,
regardless of their ethnicity,
their background
or their religion.
And that's what has to be the
focus over the
course of the next few years.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Symone Sanders,
you agree it's
not either/or, that Democrats
have to do both,
or is it time to turn more focus
to the white
working-class Americans, which
some Democrats
are saying it is?
SYMONE SANDERS: Look, I think
it's a false
choice, actually.
And for the Democrats that are
saying it's
time to turn more focus toward
the white working-class
Americans, I would say that they
have to take
a hard look at our message.
Look, Bernie Sanders was
extremely successful
during the Democratic primary
because Bernie
talked about the issues.
He talked about the fact that
folks want to
know, what are you going to do
to help me
put more money in my pockets,
more food on
the table, and help keep my kids
safe, our
communities safe, and good
education, good
schools, great jobs?
That is what the American people
want to talk
about.
Look, folks in McDowell County,
West Virginia,
have some of the same issues and
concerns
as people, working-class urban
folks in downtown
Chicago.
OK?
So, that is where Democrats need
to go.
And this argument about whether
we move to
the coasts or we come to the
middle, look,
I'm from Omaha, Nebraska, OK?
And I don't think many people
think of black
people when you think of Omaha
and Nebraska.
(LAUGHTER)
SYMONE SANDERS: But that's where
we need to
focus, the message, not
necessarily the coasts
or the white working-class.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we expect
to know tomorrow
who the party is going to choose
as its new
chair.
Yesterday, Jaime Harrison, you
-- you were
a candidate yourself.
You have thrown your support to
Tom Perez.
Just quickly tell us why.
JAIME HARRISON: Well, listen,
Judy, I think
the next chair has to -- one of
the reasons
why I dropped out is because, in
the end of
the day, I saw that the votes
were not there.
And, you know, it would have
been great to
go on the floor and get a number
of votes.
And, you know, I, based on our
whip count,
was in third place at the time.
But that wasn't for the best
interests of
this party.
We need to have a very unified
message coming
out of this vote tomorrow, that
we're all
on the same page.
And so rather than drag three
and four and
five ballots so that it looks
like the Democratic
Party is divided and didn't know
where we
were going, I wanted to make
sure that we
could focus on -- there are two
people in
this race can win.
It's either going to be Tom
Perez of Keith
Ellison, who I respect both of
them tremendously
and known both for a while now.
But, in the end of the day, I
thought that
the next chair has to be a
builder, has to
be a organizer, has to be a
visionary and
a fighter.
And I thought Tom Perez fit that
mold.
And that's why I'm supporting
him.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
Symone Sanders, you have not
endorsed anyone
for chair.
Do you think both of these, that
all the candidates
running are equally qualified to
lead the
party going forward?
SYMONE SANDERS: Absolutely.
I think the Democrats are in
great hands,
regardless of who wins tomorrow.
I think, regardless of who wins,
we're going
to have to come together, we're
going to have
unify.
And each one of those candidates
for chair
will have real work to do if
elected as chair
of the Democratic National
Committee.
So, look, I'm here for the
millennials and
the brown folks, as I like to
say.
And I and my peers and
millennials all across
this country are poised and
ready to hold
the next chair accountable.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I'm going to ask
each of you,
if you boil down the Democratic
Party message
to one sentence, Jaime Harrison,
what is it?
JAIME HARRISON: We are the party
that believes
in opportunity for all.
Regardless of your background,
your religion,
who you love, we believe that
you should all
have the ability to live the
American dream.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And Symone
Sanders?
SYMONE SANDERS: I co-sign that.
And I would just like to add we
are also the
party that is for the people, by
the people,
and all about the people.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, we are
going to
leave it there.
And we will also be watching
tomorrow's vote.
Symone Sanders, Jaime Harrison,
thanks to
both of you.
SYMONE SANDERS: Thank you.
JAIME HARRISON: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Members of
Congress have been
on recess this week.
Usually, that would mean a
number of constituent
town halls in their home states
and districts.
But fewer than 30 Republicans
are holding
those meetings, as protests grow
outside some
district offices, and
constituents rally inside
the town halls that are
scheduled.
Our team traveled to one of them
in Northern
New Jersey, near New York City,
to see the
dynamics in play.
Lisa Desjardins reports from the
Garden State.
LISA DESJARDINS: Five-term New
Jersey Congressman
Leonard Lance is about to hold
his 41st town
hall, but, tonight, the scale is
different.
He walks out to face more than
1,000 people
ready to let him hear it, and
still scores
more are protesting outside.
MAN: I'm very concerned with
what Trump is
doing with our country, and what
our congressman
is allowing him to do.
BEVERLY SMITH, New Jersey: We
should do something.
We should change what's going
on, and we should
do it now.
WOMAN: Two-six-three-six.
REP.
LEONARD LANCE (R), New Jersey:
Very good.
WOMAN: Thank you very much for
choosing my
lucky number.
LISA DESJARDINS: It is polite
tension.
Those at the microphones give
their local
hometowns and ask questions that
strike deep
into national territory.
WOMAN: Why repeal?
Why not reform the ACA?
WOMAN: All of us feel betrayed
because you
have flip-flopped on your
position on the
environment.
MAN: Do you support impeachment?
LISA DESJARDINS: Lance sometimes
surprises
the crowd by agreeing:
REP.
LEONARD LANCE: I was the first
Republican
in New Jersey to criticize the
initial executive
order.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
LISA DESJARDINS: But, more
often, he differs.
REP.
LEONARD LANCE: I don't believe
the Ways and
Means Committee should be
investigating the
returns of private individuals.
MAN: He's the president.
He's the president.
He's a public individual.
LISA DESJARDINS: This fury has
been building
since the election, and it
exploded across
the country in the past week,
Congress' first
week of recess in the Trump
presidency.
In Arkansas, Senator Tom Cotton
heard about
the Affordable Care Act.
WOMAN: I can tell you, three
members of my
family, including me, that would
be dead and
homeless if it wasn't for ACA.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
LISA DESJARDINS: In Iowa, for
Senator Chuck
Grassley, immigration and
religion.
MAN: I am a person from a Muslim
country,
and I am a Muslim.
Who is going to save me here?
LISA DESJARDINS: For Senate
Leader Mitch McConnell,
there was concern about miners.
WOMAN: And the last I heard,
these coal jobs
are not coming back, and now
these people
don't have the insurance they
need because
they're poor.
LISA DESJARDINS: The outcry is
in some liberal-leaning
areas, but also in places where
the clear
majority of voters is Republican
or moderate.
Here in New Jersey's 7th
District, Congressman
Lance is particularly on the
radar because
he's been seen as moderate in
the past, and
because Hillary Clinton won this
district
in November.
National Democrats are now
targeting his district.
And unless he's a check against
President
Trump, voters like these want
him out, too.
WOMAN: Do you guys have Lindsey
Graham over
there?
WOMAN: Thank you.
REP.
LEONARD LANCE: Meet Westfield
2020, an activist
group only a few months old,
today writing
postcards to lawmakers.
Most have never done anything
like this before.
That includes founders Marci
Bandelli and
Lillian Duggan, Democrats and
working moms
who were casual acquaintances,
and then, suddenly,
allies.
MARCI BANDELLI, Co-Founder,
Westfield 2020:
After the election, devastating
election,
Lillian reached out to me.
LILLIAN DUGGAN, Co-Founder,
Westfield 2020:
It just occurred to me that, you
know, even
though I was very sad, that we
needed to do
something.
And I thought, people need to
figure out how
this happened and start
organizing.
MARCI BANDELLI: Being from the
New York and
New Jersey area, we know Donald
Trump.
Donald Trump is a showman.
LISA DESJARDINS: Theirs is one
of nearly a
dozen new anti-Trump groups in
the congressional
district since the election.
This one started on Facebook,
and is now more
than 1,600-members strong.
LILLIAN DUGGAN: It's important
that our representation
in Congress is -- thinks
critically about
what Donald Trump is doing, and
is able to
stand up to his policies.
MARCI BANDELLI: We never knew
that this was
in our community.
We never knew the passion and
that these caring
people, were here.
It's really rescued us from this
pit that
we're really in.
And -- and everybody's
motivated.
LISA DESJARDINS: Two hundred
miles away, from
his living room in Washington,
D.C., Ezra
Levin is trying to galvanize all
that local
motivation into a national
strategy for the
left.
EZRA LEVIN, Executive Director,
Indivisible:
The theory of change here is
that Donald Trump's
agenda doesn't depend on Donald
Trump.
It depends on whether or not
individual members
of Congress choose to
rubber-stamp that or
resist it.
LISA DESJARDINS: He's executive
director of
Indivisible, a progressive group
with growing
numbers of chapters and a
borrowed game plan.
EZRA LEVIN: The inspiration for
the guide
strategy and tactics is the Tea
Party.
They understood back in 2009
that they didn't
have agenda-setting power.
They didn't have the House, the
Senate or
the presidency.
They had the power to respond
and resist.
And they did through going to
town halls,
through meeting with their
members of Congress
in person.
LISA DESJARDINS: Rutgers
political science
Professor Ross Baker says, so
far, the Tea
Party comparison is only
superficial.
ROSS BAKER, Political Science
Professor, Rutgers
University: The real question
is, can it be
sustained?
The Tea Party managed to --
managed to get
that going and sustain it over a
long period
of time, because, I think, their
focus was
much more targeted, on
Affordable Care Act
and, subliminally, at least, on
President
Obama personally.
LISA DESJARDINS: Longtime
Representative Lance
senses a new tone.
REP.
LEONARD LANCE: I think there are
loud voices
at the moment across the
country.
LISA DESJARDINS: A lot of folks
mention the
word anger.
Do you think there's anger going
on right
now?
REP.
LEONARD LANCE: I observed some
anger, that
I think that's definitely the
case.
And I try never to be angry.
It's much better to try to
reason with people,
listen to their concerns, and to
have a constructive
dialogue back and forth.
LISA DESJARDINS: On that much,
his constituents
agree.
MARCI BANDELLI: I'm not angry.
I'm motivated.
LILLIAN DUGGAN: We're sort of we
have started
a business, right?
And at the same time we have
started the business,
we're offering a product, which
is activism,
and I think camaraderie as well.
LISA DESJARDINS: This group
stresses none
of them is paid.
They even buy their own stamps.
That's despite what the White
House press
secretary has said about
organizations like
theirs.
SEAN SPICER, White House Press
Secretary:
People are clearly upset, but
there is a bit
of professional protester,
manufactured base
in there.
LISA DESJARDINS: President Trump
weighed in,
tweeting: "The so-called angry
crowds are
actually, in numerous cases,
planned out by
liberal activists."
Back at the New Jersey town
hall, the volume
rises in the final 30 minutes.
REP.
LEONARD LANCE: I believe that
when, the president
misstates, as, for example, the
facts...
WOMAN: Lies.
LISA DESJARDINS: With calls for
Lance to oppose
the president, the congressman
holds his own
and tries to look ahead.
He tells the crowd that, to meet
demand, he
will hold another town hall
Saturday.
Marci Bandelli, watching
quietly, is also
making plans.
Her group will be here, too.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins
in Westfield, New Jersey.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, from that,
let's turn
to the analysis of Shields and
Brooks.
That's syndicated columnist Mark
Shields and
New York Times columnist David
Brooks.
So, gentlemen, Mark, let's just
talk about
this right now.
What do you see this energy or
this emotion
and anger, what does it mean
coming at these
Republican town halls?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, first of
all, a shout-out
for Congressman Lance for doing
it, and for
a thoughtful interview with
Lisa, for having
another town meeting, because
several of his
colleagues have tucked tail and
run and ducked
it.
And so the energy, Judy, is
real.
There's no doubt about it.
But I think Ross Baker put the
point well,
the political philosopher and
teacher, when
he said, it isn't as focused.
It's quite diffuse.
There are those who want to
impeach Donald
Trump.
Donald Trump, I hate to tell
people who are
concerned about it, is not going
to be impeached.
The American people believe in
giving somebody
a fair chance.
He's a new president.
There have been troubles, there
have been
problems.
And the stock market just set 10
days in a
row of new records, whether
because of him
or in spite of him.
So that's -- but the energy is
real.
And the question is, can it be
focused, can
it be disciplined, can it be
sustained?
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you answer
all those
questions?
DAVID BROOKS: First, I think
Donald Trump
is not going to be impeached
this month.
Let's not close out
possibilities.
I would say a couple of things.
I do think that what's happening
is great
and that people are active and
people are
just involved in the democratic
process.
The Tea Party thing is only apt
in some ways.
The activism in the town halls,
that looks
superficially like it.
But what the Tea Party did was,
they went
after the party, the Republican
Party, as
their vehicle.
And parties is how you change
history.
So, it's fine to be an activist,
but you're
not -- if you're not putting up
candidates,
if you're not getting political,
if you're
not in your party, then you're
probably not
going to have long-term change.
You will probably dissipate.
And then it's tempting to
remember that the
Tea Party had a peak and then
the Republican
Party establishment sort of beat
it back down.
And so these things are won in a
day.
And then the final thing the Tea
Party had
was, they fed into the
philosophy that Donald
Trump now embodies.
So they had a different view of
how the world
should be governed.
And so they had a lot of things
that we didn't
appreciate going for them as
time went by.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, it did lead
to something,
Mark.
MARK SHIELDS: Oh, it certainly
did.
It led to the Republican
takeover in 2010.
And Kevin McCarthy, who is now
the House majority
leader, was pretty open.
He went out and recruited
candidates who had
emerged from that movement.
And the Republicans in the House
have paid
a price for it ever since,
because they cannot
pass anything comprehensive or
real because
of the Freedom Caucus, which is
the child,
the product, the progeny of the
Tea Party.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But to both of
you just quickly,
you're hearing some Republicans,
you're hearing
the White House saying, well, a
lot of this
is orchestrated, it's been
somebody sitting
there sort of pulling the
strings.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How genuine is
this?
MARK SHIELDS: It's genuine.
Judy, the argument of those who
are being
criticized at any time, the
civil rights movement
forward, the anti-war movement
forward, is,
it's always outside agitators
doing it.
The Wall Street Journal had a
pretty good
piece yesterday that this is
organic.
It's not organized.
It's real.
These are -- are there people
nationally working
on it?
Sure.
But people who are emerging are
from those
districts.
When Tom Cotton hears a woman
stand up in
Arkansas and said three members
of my family
would be dead but for ACA,
including me, and
where do you get your insurance,
Senator,
they're all going to be asked
that.
So, it's genuine.
DAVID BROOKS: And there's
nothing wrong with
being organized.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: Things that change
history tend
to be organized.
And so I do think what the Tea
Party also
had was Obamacare and the
unpopularity of
that, at least at the time.
And so whether there is
something that is
equally unpopular and equally
galvanizing
that is almost self-destructive
from the administration,
that's another factor that we
will wait and
see.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we will
wait and see
about that.
But, meantime, right now -- and
we talked
about it a few minutes ago on
the show, Mark
-- the Democrats are about to
choose a new
party chair.
We were talking about the
message of the party.
Do you hear a clear message
coming from the
Democrats?
Do you think it matters whether
they come
together around any message
right now?
MARK SHIELDS: Sure.
It will, Judy.
But, no, I don't hear any clear,
coherent
message.
I mean, when you're a party out
of power,
it's the time to be a national
party chair.
When the party holds the White
House, all
the political decisions are made
in the White
House.
And being a party chair, you're
just an artifact.
But, being a party chair, you
really have
a chance to make a difference.
but what the Democrats have to
do is recognize
and accept the fact that they're
at their
lowest point since 1928 in the
United States
House of Representatives and
their lowest
point since 1925 in states.
So, they have got to start
winning elections.
That involves not some great
idea, but it
also involves recruiting
candidates.
And Rahm Emanuel, the mayor of
Chicago, who
has given obnoxiousness a new
definition in
his personal behavior,
oftentimes in his dealings
with the press, had a very good
point.
And that is, the Democrats have
to do what
he did when he was chairman of
the Democratic
House Campaign Committee,
recruit veterans,
recruit football players,
recruit businesspeople.
And I think that's what the job
of the new
party chair has to be.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
I guess, to me, the fundamental
thing -- well,
I guess I see a lot of people
debating this
in the wrong way.
A lot of the debate is, should
we go to the
coasts, should we go to the
center, should
we go to the left, should we go
to the right?
But Trump is instructive here,
actually.
You figure out, what is the
crucial issue
facing the country right now?
And for Trump, it was that the
global economy
and the international world
order were failing
regular people.
And so he said, that's the
crucial issue.
I'm going to take a clear stand
on that issue.
And he did.
And it's very internally
consistent.
And he won with it.
For the Democrats, they're
trying to avoid
having the Sanders-Clinton
debate over and
over again.
But, to some degree, they're
sentenced to
that debate.
Clinton is much more embracing
of the global
economy and the international
world order.
Sanders and Warren are much less
so.
And they have got to figure out
which side
the party is on, if they're
going to have
a clear message.
I think this is probably one you
probably
can't straddle.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, when you
hear, as we heard
earlier, when they say, well,
opportunity
for all, you're saying it's got
to be more
specific?
DAVID BROOKS: You have got to
have -- Franklin
Roosevelt had a pretty clear
line.
Ronald Reagan had a pretty clear
line, people
who rescue parties.
And it doesn't have to be the
same line that
we have had for the last 40
years, because
that clearly isn't working on
any level.
But you have got to have a
pretty clear line
on this crucial issue.
Basically, global capitalism,
basically to
support it, or is it to be
opposed?
Is international order to be
supported, or
is it to be opposed?
Republicans have taken a very
clear line.
Democrats can have a different
version of
the line, or they can just say,
no, we are
the party of international peace
and activism,
and we're the party that's going
to have a
civilized capitalism.
MARK SHIELDS: Two points.
First of all, that's way above
the job description
and job definition of a party
chair.
That is.
That will be fought out in the
primaries in
1920 -- in 2020.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: Before that, in
2018 as well.
But Franklin Roosevelt also ran
on a balanced
budget in 1932, and the greatest
president,
certainly, of the 20th century.
And, you know, so the idea that
you lay out
a predicate right now, Donald
Trump has recreated
the Republican Party in his
image.
We saw that at the CPAC
convention, Judy.
That was a total surrender of
the Reagan era.
Ronald Reagan is gone.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Wow.
MARK SHIELDS: He is nothing but
a distant
memory.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Gone?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, seeing that
party today,
I mean, he stood up and he said,
you finally
have a president, you finally
have a president.
I am the future.
And what did he get?
Hosannas and huzzahs and
genuflection.
It was a total takeover of the
conservative
movement.
Like, that's what the
conservative movement
has become, is basically an
annex of the Trump
campaign.
DAVID BROOKS: I wish I could
disagree.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Do you think the
two are now
one, that it's the Trump and the
conservative...
DAVID BROOKS: I don't know if it
will be forever,
but, for this moment, yes, for
sure.
Steve Bannon went to the CPAC
this week and
he said that there was a very
important historical
turning point, getting rid of
the TPP.
And the Republican Party has
stood for that
for as long as I have been
alive.
And then Trump today, he -- you
know, buy
American, buy American,
anti-free trade, and
got big cheers.
They're waving Russian flags,
probably partly
as a joke.
But, still, the party has become
an ethnic
nationalist party.
And I don't think it's just
because they,
oh, that we agree with Trump on
some things
and not on others.
I do think, over the last 10
years, a lot
of Republicans have decided it's
not working,
what the party believed in, free
trade, global
capitalism, open borders.
They looked at basically the
failed wars and
they said, oh, this, us being
the policeman
of the world, that is not
working.
And so something really serious
has shifted
in the minds of Republicans and
certainly
others.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But aren't there
still Republicans
who say, CPAC doesn't represent
me, that I'm
not part of the conservative
movement, I'm
a Republican, but I'm not there?
MARK SHIELDS: Sure.
Absolutely.
I mean, this is a group, don't
forget, that
gave its presidential straw
ballot to Ron
Paul, Ron Paul, and Rand Paul
and Rand Paul.
So, they have abandoned what --
their libertarian
values and instincts to embrace
Trump.
Judy, gone is any mention of
American exceptionalism.
I happen to believe that twice,
three times
in the 20th century, the United
States saved
Western democracy, both World
War -- both
World Wars and the Cold War.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, you're
hearing about
America first.
MARK SHIELDS: But America's
exceptionalism,
American leadership, the
American model, the
American values are not --
they're something
that end at the border.
They're something that are just
for us.
And American responsibility is
-- there is
no mention of it.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
We had the clip earlier in the
program of
Trump saying: I'm not president
of the globe.
I'm president of the United
States.
Reagan would have never said
that.
Eisenhower would have never said
that, because
he would have said, yes, I'm
president of
the United States, but it's in
our interests
to be securing a world order.
MARK SHIELDS: A citizen of the
world.
DAVID BROOKS: And that is -- the
two are so
intricately linked.
But Trump sees an opposition
between the two.
It's a very different mind-set.
The other thing that has changed
-- and this
is more detailed to CPAC than
the general
Republican Party -- is they have
always been
an outsider, Ann Coulter, sort
of protest
style, a little ruder than most
Republicans.
And this goes back all the way
to Reagan.
Lee Atwater, Reagan's
strategist, had no patience
for CPAC, because he thought
they were sort
of wild and immature, basically.
And so that's always been a
strain.
So, it's interesting how
identity politics
and Ann Coulter-style tactics
have now blossomed.
But they were always there in
CPAC.
JUDY WOODRUFF: OK, just about a
minute, a
minute-and-a-half left.
I want to quickly ask you.
We are careful about how we talk
about President
Trump and the news media,
because we think
you can quickly get into a
situation, Mark,
where you are looking at
yourself and being
a little too self-referential,
any of us in
the news media.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But what I want
to ask both
of you, quickly, is, is this
something that
the press -- that's going to
begin to define
the press, the president's
constant, daily
saying fake news, the press is
dishonest,
the press makes things up?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, Judy, he's
moved from
the enemy being Barack Obama,
now gone, fading
is Hillary Clinton, and there is
no question
he's chosen the enemy.
I thought what Steve Bannon said
yesterday
was probably more chilling or
more threatening
than anything the president
says, I mean,
because he said, it's a constant
day.
We have to defeat the press.
And President Kennedy, after the
Bay of Pigs,
said to Turner Catledge of The
New York Times:
I wish you had written more, I
wish you had
investigated more, because it
might have saved
the country of the cataclysm of
the Bay of
Pigs.
And, you know, that's the job of
a free press
is to hold the lamp up, to
investigate, to
hold accountable.
And denying access, as Sean
Spicer did today,
is the first step toward a
dictatorship.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
It's both strategic, to get
people's minds
off other things, and to pick an
internal
enemy.
It's part of his psychodynamics
to always
care about his press coverage
intensely.
He's more interested in that
than anything
else.
Will it to stick?
Of course, I tend to think not,
the fake media.
But I'm sure little Marco didn't
think it
would stick.
I'm sure crooked Hillary didn't
think it would
stick.
These labels do have a certain
power to them.
And so we will see how it plays
out.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We will see.
David Brooks, Mark Shields,
thank you both.
MARK SHIELDS: Thank you, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now the story of
a good man
on a quiet and heartbreaking
mission, one
many people would never consider
undertaking.
He worked for years in
obscurity, until recent
notice brought this remarkable
man and his
story to light.
From Los Angeles, special
correspondent Gayle
Tzemach Lemmon brings us this
profile.
MOHAMED BZEEK, Foster Parent:
What are you
doing?
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: Mohamed
Bzeek has become
something of a local hero here
in Los Angeles
recently.
MOHAMED BZEEK: I am not an
angel.
I am not a hero.
It's just what we are supposed
to do as a
human being.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: In 1978,
Bzeek, then
a former marathon runner, came
to the U.S.
from Libya to study engineering.
He met his wife here in the
U.S., and became
a citizen in 1997.
But, today, he is a different
kind of champion.
His distinction?
He is the only foster parent in
this city
of four million who cares solely
for terminally
ill children.
What happens if you get sick?
MOHAMED BZEEK: Father doesn't
get sick day.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: It is not
a glamorous
job.
MOHAMED BZEEK: You have to do it
from your
heart, really.
If you do it for money, you're
not going to
stay for long.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: Over
almost three decades,
he and his wife cared for scores
of children.
Ten have died in his care.
Most of the children he's taken
recently are
born with terminal illnesses.
Sometimes, they are abandoned or
born to parents
with drug addiction.
Once they enter the foster care
system, the
county works to connect them
with foster parents
like Mohamed.
The memories of the children, he
says, still
live with him every day.
MOHAMED BZEEK: And this is my
kid who died
with the cancer.
He has a cancer.
He died.
They operate on him, and they
find the cancer
separate all of his organs.
So, the doctor said, let's
stitch him back,
and said, there's nothing we can
do for him.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: Today, he
lives with
a 6-year-old foster daughter
born with microcephaly,
a rare disorder in which a
baby's brain doesn't
fully develop.
She cannot see or hear.
She responds only to touch.
At seven weeks old, the county
took her from
her biological parents.
They called Bzeek, and he agreed
to take her
in.
He also cares for his biological
son, Adam,
who himself was born in 1997
with brittle
bones, dwarfism and other
physical challenges.
Taking in critically ill
children is a painful
process.
He knows at the start their time
together
will be short.
MOHAMED BZEEK: I know it's
heartbreak.
I know it's a lot of work.
I know it's going to hurt me
sometimes.
You know, I feel sad.
But, in my opinion, we should
help each other,
you know?
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: Much of
his dedication,
he says, derives from his faith.
Bzeek is a practicing Muslim.
And his story gained special
notice recently,
after President Trump issued an
executive
order seeking to bar immigrants
from seven
majority Muslim nations,
including his own
home country of Libya.
Bzeek says he sees the negative
stereotypes
out there.
But he is not deterred.
MOHAMED BZEEK: As a Muslim, I
don't hate nobody.
I love everybody.
I respect everybody.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: His faith
has continued
to guide him through many
heartbreaks.
His wife passed away in 2015.
After your wife died, did you
ever think,
this is actually too much for
one person to
do?
MOHAMED BZEEK: Sometimes.
But I know somebody who needs
help.
I will do it as long as I am
healthy.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: Now he has
a nurse's
aide that helps with care on
weekdays from
8:00 to 4:00.
But, still, it's a full-time
job, one he handles
by himself every night and every
weekend.
With his foster daughter's
seizures happening
more and more often, he usually
sleeps near
her on the couch, just in case.
He says he hasn't had a day off
since 2010.
And the challenges have
continued to mount.
In November, the caregiver
became the patient.
MOHAMED BZEEK: I find out in
November I have
colon cancer.
And they told me they have to
operate on you
in December.
I said -- I talk with the
surgeon.
I said, Doctor, I can't.
You have to give me time,
because I have a
foster kid who is terminal.
And I have my son.
He is handicapped.
There is nobody for them, you
know?
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: Did anyone
go with you
to the hospital?
MOHAMED BZEEK: No.
That was the scary part, you
know?
I felt about the kids who's been
sick for
all their for.
If I am adult, 62 years old, and
I feel this,
that I am alone, I am scared,
nobody tells
me it's OK and it will be fine,
this experience,
this humbled me.
WOMAN: She's talking.
MOHAMED BZEEK: Yes, she's
talking.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: There's so
much heartbreak,
and yet you keep doing it.
MOHAMED BZEEK: I mean, these
kids need -- need
somebody.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: Even if
there's that
much heartbreak?
MOHAMED BZEEK: Even though my
heart is breaking.
To me, death is part of life.
And I'm glad that I help these
kids go through
this period of his time, you
know?
And I help him.
I be with him.
I comfort him.
I love him or her.
And until he pass away, I am
with him and
make him feel he has a family
and he has somebody
who cares about him and loves
him.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: That
they're not alone.
MOHAMED BZEEK: No.
They're not alone.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: Bzeek
underwent a successful
cancer surgery in December, and
treatment
is ongoing.
His story has received wide
attention that
led to an online fund-raising
drive that has
already raised over $200,000.
He says he will use the money
for a new roof,
air conditioning, and maybe even
a replacement
for his 14-year-old van.
MOHAMED BZEEK: I was reading all
the comments
that people put on the Internet.
Every day, I was crying because
of their kindness
and the nice words they said.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: And, in
the end, he
says he has been humbled by just
how much
his story has brought out
others' heart and
humanity.
MOHAMED BZEEK: I can't describe
the feeling,
you know?
I mean, you see how many nice
people around
us, but we don't see them
because of this
turmoil and this time.
We didn't see just how many nice
and kind
people around us.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: Do you
think you see
more of them now?
MOHAMED BZEEK: Yes.
There is always good in this
world, you know,
more than the bad, always.
That's what I believe.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: For the
"PBS NewsHour,"
I'm Gayle Tzemach Lemmon in Los
Angeles.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
online right
now: A classic toy goes virtual.
We look at the science behind
the latest Barbie
toy, a hologram.
It's part of a new generation of
tech-inspired
playthings.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
Coming up later on "Washington
Week": Just
one month into office, is the
Trump doctrine
redefining what it means to be a
Republican?
Get insight from the "Washington
Week" panel
later tonight on your PBS
station.
On "PBS NewsHour Weekend"
Saturday: The Brexit
effect on Northern Ireland, will
it challenge
two decades of peace?
THERESA MAY, British Prime
Minister: Nobody
wants to return to the borders
of the past.
NARRATOR: British Prime Minister
Theresa May
has tried to assuage concerns by
stating her
preference for a frictionless
border.
But Gerry Adams, a towering
figure among Catholic
Republicans, and a key player in
the peace
process, isn't buying it.
For 34 years, Adams has led Sinn
Fein, the
political party historically
tied to the Irish
Republican Army, which fought to
separate
Northern Ireland from the United
Kingdom,
and a British government Adams
contends still
doesn't have Northern Ireland's
best interests
at heart.
GERRY ADAMS, Sinn Fein: I don't
think they
give a fig about people here.
I don't think they ever have.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That's tomorrow
night on "PBS
NewsHour Weekend."
And before we go tonight, we
want to mark
the passing of Ward Chamberlin.
He was a longtime friend of the
"NewsHour."
He served as president and CEO
of our home
TV station, WETA, from 1975
until 1989.
He was a strong voice for the
importance of
public media.
And he will be missed.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Have a great weekend.
Thank you, and good night.